@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the Integrit File Verification System Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2006 Ed L. Cashin
@c See the file integrit.texi for copying conditions.
@setfilename ../info/i-ls

@c Copyright (C) 2006 Ed L. Cashin
@c 
@c This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
@c modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
@c as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
@c of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
@c 
@c This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
@c but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
@c MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
@c GNU General Public License for more details.
@c 
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
@c along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
@c Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.
@c 

@node i-ls
@section i-ls
@cindex i-ls

The integrit system detects intrusion by detecting when trusted files
have been altered.

Integrit records information about files in a database when it does an
update and compares that information to live files when it does a check.

The @code{i-ls} standalone tool allows the user to see that same
information for live files.

The output syntax is similar to that of integrit.

Options:

@table @code
@cindex checksum
@item -s

Do not show/calculate a checksums for all regular files.  In case i-ls
cannot do a checksum (e.g. permission denied), a warning is issued.

@end table

It is invoked like this:

@example
    i-ls [-s] @{filename|dirname@} [filename|dirname] ...
@end example

You specify a filename for i-ls to examine, or you specify a directory
to have i-ls examine all the files in the directory.

Examples:

@example
     i-ls /tmp/foo.txt /tmp/bar.txt
@end example

@noindent
@dots{} shows file stat attributes for the file, @code{/tmp/foo.txt}
and also for @code{/tmp/bar.txt}.

@example
     i-ls /tmp
@end example

@noindent
@dots{} shows file stat attributes for all files in the directory,
@code{/tmp}. 

@example
     i-ls -s /tmp
@end example

@noindent
@dots{} shows file stat attributes for all files in the directory,
@code{/tmp}, omitting SHA-1 checksum information.
