@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the Integrit File Verification System Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2006 Ed L. Cashin
@c See the file integrit.texi for copying conditions.
@setfilename ../info/i-viewdb

@c Copyright (C) 2006 Ed L. Cashin
@c 
@c This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
@c modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
@c as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
@c of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
@c 
@c This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
@c but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
@c MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
@c GNU General Public License for more details.
@c 
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
@c along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
@c Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.
@c 

@node i-viewdb
@section i-viewdb
@cindex i-viewdb

To detect file deletions, modifications, and creations, integrit saves
information about your files in databases.  i-viewdb is a standalone
tool that allows you to view the information stored in integrit
databases.  It only has one option:

@table @code
@cindex checksum
@item -s

Do not show the checksums stored in the database.

@end table

@noindent
@dots{} and you invoke it like this:

@example
    i-viewdb [-s] @{dbname@}
@end example

@noindent
@dots{} where ``dbname'' is the name of the integrit database for
i-viewdb to examine.

The output syntax is the same as that of integrit.

Examples:

@example
   i-viewdb integrit-foo.cdb | less
@end example

@noindent
@dots{} uses the "less" pager to view contents of the integrit
database. 

@example
   i-viewdb integrit-foo.cdb | awk '@{ print $1 " " $8 @}'
@end example

@noindent
@dots{} look at the files and access times in the integrit database.
